**Meeting Minutes**

**Meeting Title / Topic:** Public Immunization and Community Recognition

**Date and Time:** [Date not specified]

**Participants:**
- Sr. José Silva
- Maris e Lopes
- Edgar
- Naya
- Adete
- Members of the Municipal Chamber

**Agenda Items:**
1. Public Immunization
2. Community Recognition and Honors

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The meeting addressed the topic of public immunization, emphasizing its importance and the participation of the Municipal Chamber in the process.
- Sr. José Silva raised a point regarding the recognition of Paulo Silva, expressing agreement with honoring him for his contributions to the community.

**Decisions Made:**
- No specific decisions were recorded in the transcript.

**Action Items:**
- Participants were encouraged to speak clearly into the microphone to facilitate future voting processes.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- No follow-up meetings were scheduled as per the transcript.**Meeting Title / Topic:** Tribute to Paulo Silva and Contributions to the Community

**Date and Time:** [Date and time not provided]

**Participants:** 
- [Names not provided]

**Agenda Items:**
- Discussion on the legacy of Paulo Silva
- Proposal for a tribute to Paulo Silva
- Contributions of the local club and its members

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- Paulo Silva was remembered as a young dreamer who inspired others in Miranda.
- There was a discussion on the impact Paulo Silva had on the community, particularly after the passing of João Peter.
- The importance of recognizing Paulo Silva's contributions to encouraging youth in Miranda was highlighted.
- A suggestion was made to honor Paulo Silva with a tribute, possibly on a wall at Crédito Agrícola, acknowledging his role as a young dreamer and banker who continued to support the youth.
- The respect and significance of the local club were emphasized, with mentions of contributions from individuals like Coimbra, Simões, Ayres Mendes Alves, and notable players such as Rato, Alcino Borrega, and Zé Pascoal.

**Decisions Made:**
- A consensus was reached on the need to pay tribute to Paulo Silva for his contributions to the community.

**Action Items:**
- Consideration of a tribute to Paulo Silva at Crédito Agrícola.
- Further discussions on how to appropriately honor Paulo Silva's legacy.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- [Next steps or follow-up meetings not specified]Meeting Title: Discussion on Local Honors and Community Contributions

Date and Time: Not specified

Participants: Not specified

Agenda Items:
- Recognition of community contributions
- Naming of local facilities

Summary of Key Discussion Points:
- The discussion included recognizing individuals who have made significant contributions to the community, such as Dr. Jaime Ramos and Carlos Amaral.
- Mention was made of the first social housing project in Miranda do Corvo and the establishment of a significant banking institution in the area.
- Concerns were raised about naming the local football field after Paulo Silva, emphasizing the importance of acknowledging past players, coaches, and presidents who contributed to the local sports community.

Decisions Made:
- No specific decisions were recorded.

Action Items:
- No action items were specified.

Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:
- No follow-up meetings were mentioned.Meeting Title: Proposal for Honoring Paulo Silva

Date and Time: [Date and time not specified]

Participants:
- Unnamed speaker
- Mr. President
- Other council members

Agenda Items:
- Discussion on honoring Paulo Silva for his contributions to the community.

Summary of Key Discussion Points:
- The speaker highlighted Paulo Silva's significant contributions to the community, particularly in inspiring young people to achieve their dreams.
- Paulo Silva's efforts in maintaining local infrastructure and his role in motivating youth were emphasized.
- The speaker proposed a tribute to Paulo Silva, suggesting a mural on the wall of the Crédito Agrícola building, depicting a young dreamer inspired by Silva.

Decisions Made:
- No formal decisions were recorded in the transcript.

Action Items:
- Proposal for a mural to be discussed with PSD, the local council, and the Crédito Agrícola.

Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:
- No follow-up meetings were specified.**Meeting Title / Topic:** Water Supply Issues and Educational Resources

**Date and Time:** [Date and time not provided]

**Participants:** 
- President of the Executive
- Council Member for Education
- Other unspecified participants

**Agenda Items:**
1. Water supply issues in the community
2. Educational resources for students

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- A participant raised concerns about the ongoing water supply issues, noting frequent shortages, particularly in the afternoons, which disrupt daily activities such as using washing machines.
- The participant inquired about the measures being taken by the Executive to address the water supply problem, acknowledging the broader national water scarcity but emphasizing the need for local action.
- A suggestion was made to the Council Member for Education to consider providing workbooks for students in grades 5 and 6, similar to an initiative by the Municipal Council of Penela.
- The participant expressed gratitude to the Council Member for Education for her efforts and positive impact on the educational sector.

**Decisions Made:**
- No specific decisions were recorded in the transcript.

**Action Items:**
- The Executive is to address the water supply issues and communicate any measures being implemented.
- The Council Member for Education to consider the suggestion of providing workbooks for students in grades 5 and 6.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- No follow-up meetings were scheduled in the transcript.**Meeting Title / Topic:** Inquiry About Opportunities for Recreational Activities

**Date and Time:** [Date and time not provided]

**Participants:**
- Edgar Naia
- President
- Council Members
- General Public

**Agenda Items:**
- Introduction of Edgar Naia and his background
- Inquiry about potential opportunities for recreational activities

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- Edgar Naia introduced himself as a retired electrotechnical engineer from Mozambique, currently residing in Miranda.
- He expressed interest in finding opportunities to engage in recreational activities, similar to his previous involvement with the Eusébio Academy in Maputo.
- Edgar Naia mentioned his connection to the community through his wife and his brother-in-law, Fausto Moraes, who is a collaborator with the council.
- He acknowledged the upcoming elections and the potential continuation of some council members in their roles.

**Decisions Made:**
- No specific decisions were made during this meeting.

**Action Items:**
- No action items were identified during this meeting.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- No follow-up meetings were scheduled.Meeting Title: Discussion on Community Field Usage

Date and Time: [Date and Time Not Provided]

Participants:
- [Participant Name Not Provided]
- Mr. Pita
- English cricket team members

Agenda Items:
- Current status of the community field
- Interest in utilizing the field for new activities
- Conditions of the field and existing agreements

Summary of Key Discussion Points:
- The participant visited the community field, currently used as a cricket field, and spoke with the English cricket team members.
- It was noted that the cricket team is experiencing internal discord and issues related to match-fixing, leading to a lack of interest in continuing their activities at the field.
- The participant expressed interest in using the field for other activities and inquired about the possibility of doing so.
- The participant was informed about the favorable conditions previously provided to the cricket team, including free water and electricity, and was surprised by these terms.
- Concerns were raised about the current condition of the field.

Decisions Made:
- No decisions were made during this discussion.

Action Items:
- None specified.

Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:
- None specified.**Meeting Title / Topic:** Community Use of Local Sports Field

**Date and Time:** [Date and time not provided]

**Participants:** 
- Local resident (name not provided)
- Municipal representatives (names not provided)

**Agenda Items:**
1. Condition and use of the local sports field
2. Status of ongoing municipal processes

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- A local resident expressed interest in utilizing the sports field located behind Belisário Pimenta Street for various activities, including cricket, football, rugby, and aeromodeling. The resident inquired about the possibility of establishing a contract similar to one previously held with English parties.
- The resident mentioned issues with the field's condition, specifically related to problems with pumps.
- The resident also sought updates on two municipal processes: Process 120 of 2023, which is currently ongoing with responses from the municipal chamber and the architect, and Process 333 of 2022, for which the resident requested information on any developments or scheduled meetings.

**Decisions Made:**
- No decisions were made during the meeting.

**Action Items:**
- Municipal representatives to provide updates on the status of Process 333 of 2022.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- No follow-up meetings were scheduled.**Meeting Title / Topic:** Water Supply Issues in the Zona Alta

**Date and Time:** [Date and time not specified]

**Participants:**
- António Silva
- Marisa Lopes
- [Other participants not specified]

**Agenda Items:**
- Discussion on water supply issues in the Zona Alta area.

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- António Silva provided insights and contributions regarding the water supply issues, which will be considered and evaluated.
- Marisa Lopes highlighted issues related to water pressure in the Zona Alta, particularly noting recurring pressure problems in the Moinho do Meio area.
- It was noted that there is no shortage of water at the source, as it is supplied from the central coastal waters, specifically from the Boa Vista capture in Coimbra.
- Potential issues in the local network or reservoirs during peak consumption times were acknowledged as possible causes of the pressure problems.

**Decisions Made:**
- The issue of water pressure in the Moinho do Meio area will be investigated further.

**Action Items:**
- Verify the water pressure issues with the relevant services.
- Marisa Lopes to be contacted for further details and follow-up on the situation.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- [Next steps or follow-up meetings not specified]**Meeting Title:** Educational Resources and Future Planning

**Date and Time:** [Date and time not provided]

**Participants:**
- Representative from the Municipality of Miranda Corro
- Sra. de Garneia
- Interim Executive

**Agenda Items:**
1. Provision of Educational Materials
2. Future Planning for Educational Resources
3. Partnerships and Protocols

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The Municipality of Miranda Corro has been proactive in providing educational materials, specifically manual books, even before the Government's initiative.
- The current focus is on providing workbooks, as the Government supplies the manuals for the 1st cycle.
- A suggestion was made to extend the provision of workbooks to the 5th and 6th years (2nd cycle), which will be considered by the incoming Executive in the autumn.
- The importance of partnerships and protocols between the municipality and other entities was acknowledged.

**Decisions Made:**
- Consideration of extending workbook provision to the 5th and 6th years will be evaluated by the new Executive.

**Action Items:**
- The incoming Executive to evaluate the suggestion of extending workbook provision to the 2nd cycle.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- No specific follow-up meetings were scheduled.**Meeting Title / Topic:** Discussion on Municipal Partnerships and Cricket Program

**Date and Time:** [Date and time not provided]

**Participants:** [Participants not specified]

**Agenda Items:**
- Review of partnerships with clubs and associations
- Status of the municipal cricket program
- Consideration of future partnerships

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The municipality typically engages in partnerships with clubs, associations, or through public processes, rather than with individuals.
- The cricket program, previously successful, has faced internal issues within the club, affecting the flow of information to the municipality.
- There is a possibility that the municipality may need to reconsider or terminate the current partnership if the club cannot resolve its internal problems.
- The municipality is open to considering new partners based on the projects they present.
- It was suggested that decisions regarding the cricket program and potential new partnerships might be deferred to the next executive, given the current end-of-mandate context.

**Decisions Made:**
- No specific decisions were made during this meeting.

**Action Items:**
- Monitor the situation with the current cricket club and assess the need for potential new partnerships.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- Consideration of the cricket program and partnerships by the next executive.**Meeting Minutes**

**Meeting Title / Topic:** Evaluation of Partnership and Upcoming Commission Meeting

**Date and Time:** Not specified

**Participants:** 
- Adérito Jesus
- Other unnamed participants

**Agenda Items:**
- Evaluation of the longstanding partnership and its impact on the local economy.
- Scheduling of the upcoming commission meeting.

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The partnership has been beneficial to the local economy and should be evaluated at the beginning of the next mandate.
- The commission meeting has not yet been scheduled, but it is important to hold it in September to address pending processes.

**Decisions Made:**
- The partnership will be evaluated at the start of the next mandate.

**Action Items:**
- Verify with the services if the commission meeting can be scheduled for September. (Responsible: Unspecified)

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- Await confirmation on the scheduling of the commission meeting for September.**Meeting Title / Topic:** Discussion on National Fire Alert and Municipal Civil Protection Coordination

**Date and Time:** Not specified

**Participants:** Not specified

**Agenda Items:**
1. National fire alert situation
2. Municipal Civil Protection coordination

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The country has been experiencing a critical period concerning fire risk over the past few weeks.
- The Government declared a state of alert across the entire national territory from August 3 to August 19, lasting 17 consecutive days.
- Portugal is currently facing what is classified as the largest fire ever in the country, specifically in Arganil, Pioga, which is being combated by over 1,600 operatives.
- The Municipal Civil Protection Commission convened on July 31 to ensure proper coordination among all Civil Protection agents.

**Decisions Made:**
- No specific decisions were recorded in the transcript.

**Action Items:**
- No specific action items were recorded in the transcript.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- No follow-up meetings were mentioned in the transcript.**Meeting Title / Topic:** Fire Management and Community Support

**Date and Time:** [Not specified]

**Participants:** 
- [Not specified, but includes representatives from the local government and fire services]

**Agenda Items:**
- Recent fire incidents and management
- Community support and collaboration

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The region was recently threatened by a fire originating in the Serra de Los Angeles.
- The volunteer firefighters of Miranda do Corro played a crucial role in defending the territory and local infrastructure.
- The operational management involved balancing the protection of the local council with providing assistance to neighboring communities.
- There was a continuous effort to monitor and manage the situation effectively.

**Decisions Made:**
- Acknowledgment and appreciation were expressed towards the volunteer firefighters and other Civil Protection agents for their efforts.

**Action Items:**
- Maintain vigilance and preparedness for future fire threats.
- Continue supporting neighboring communities as needed.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- [Not specified]**Meeting Title / Topic:** Tribute and Condolence Motion for António Ferreira

**Date and Time:** [Date and time not specified in the transcript]

**Participants:** 
- Vice-President
- Deputada

**Agenda Items:**
1. Tribute to António Ferreira
2. Proposal for a Condolence Motion

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- A tribute was made to António Ferreira, who was recently recognized at the Gala do Descorto in the area of Culture.
- António Ferreira, who recently passed away at the age of 100, was acknowledged for his significant contributions to cultural growth, particularly through his work with the Fundação Carlos II.
- The Vice-President and Deputada discussed the importance of honoring his legacy and contributions to cultural services.

**Decisions Made:**
- A proposal for a condolence motion for António Ferreira was presented.

**Action Items:**
- Approval of the condolence motion by the Vice-President and Deputada.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- [No follow-up meetings mentioned in the transcript]**Meeting Title / Topic:** Tribute and Upcoming Cultural Event

**Date and Time:** [Date not specified]

**Participants:**
- Sr. Presidente
- Sra. Vice-Presidente
- Other unspecified participants

**Agenda Items:**
1. Tribute to Sr. António Ferreira
2. Upcoming Cultural Event: 12th Anniversary of Casa das Artes

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- A vote of condolence was extended to the family of Sr. António Ferreira, particularly his children and widow.
- A proposal was made and approved to observe a minute of silence in memory of Sr. António Ferreira.
- An announcement was made regarding the celebration of the 12th anniversary of Casa das Artes, scheduled for Sunday afternoon. The event will include cultural programming and all participants are invited.

**Decisions Made:**
- A minute of silence was observed in memory of Sr. António Ferreira.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- Participants are invited to attend the cultural celebration on Sunday afternoon.**Meeting Title / Topic:** Cultural Events Update

**Date and Time:** [Date not specified]

**Participants:**
- Members of the Municipal Council
- Journalist Ana
- Dr. Nuno Cunha
- Margarida Mendo

**Agenda Items:**
- Update on cultural events, specifically the Sorões do Andramás

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The Sorões do Andramás event is part of the Jazz, Encontros de Jazz nas Aldeias do Xisto cycle.
- This year, the event will feature a new format with two consecutive days of programming.
- The event aims to offer a broader cultural experience, combining concerts and mediation activities for diverse audiences.
- The initiative is promoted by the municipality in collaboration with the Associação Jazz ao Centro Clube.
- The event will commence at 21:30 with a performance by vibraphonist Jeffrey Davis, who will present his first album live.

**Decisions Made:**
- No specific decisions were recorded in the transcript.

**Action Items:**
- No specific action items were recorded in the transcript.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- No follow-up meetings were mentioned in the transcript.Meeting Title: Cultural Event Planning

Date and Time: Not specified

Participants: Not specified

Agenda Items:
- Overview of the upcoming cultural event
- Activities planned for Saturday
- Participation and registration details

Summary of Key Discussion Points:
- The event features a sound sculptor capable of transitioning between Jazz and classical music, supported by Antena 2, Fundação Caixa de Alpósitos, and Palco Improvisado.
- On Saturday, the program begins at 23:00 with a special sound walk led by Luís Antero, an expert in the collection and documentation of National Acoustic Heritage. This sensory journey will explore the village and its surrounding forest.
- Participation in the sound walk is limited and requires mandatory registration. A second walk may be scheduled if the first is fully booked.
- At 18:00, Luís Antero and double bassist Miguel Calhás will present a jazz escape sound project, combining field recordings and jazz improvisation.

Decisions Made:
- Mandatory registration for the sound walk.
- Possibility of scheduling a second sound walk if demand exceeds capacity.

Action Items:
- Ensure registration process is in place for the sound walk.
- Monitor registration numbers to determine the need for a second walk.

Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:
- Not specified**Meeting Title / Topic:** Cultural Event Planning and Support

**Date and Time:** Not specified

**Participants:**
- Vice-President
- Councilor Ana Sofia Bache
- President
- Chief of Staff
- Nuno Cunha
- Margarida Mendes
- Journalist from ANO
- Public attendees

**Agenda Items:**
- Introduction of the Quarteto Lírio do Bal project
- Support for the cultural event
- Promotion of local culture and economy

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The Quarteto Lírio do Bal, a project initiated in 2024, focuses on the interaction between humans and nature. The event will take place at Gondramage.
- The event receives support from the Assembly of Compartes of Baldeiros do Gondramage and Cadabal, as well as financial backing from a private individual who also provides the venue.
- The municipality offers transportation for attendees who require it, with prior reservation needed.
- The event aims to promote culture, the local council, and the local economy.

**Decisions Made:**
- Not explicitly stated.

**Action Items:**
- Not explicitly stated.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- Not explicitly stated.**Meeting Title / Topic:** Infrastructure Concerns and Community Safety

**Date and Time:** [Date and Time not provided]

**Participants:**
- [Names not provided, but includes a President and Mr. Horácio Santos]
- Members of the Executive
- Members of the "Juntos por Miranda" group

**Agenda Items:**
1. Requalification of Estrada dos Moinhos
2. Proposal for a vote of condolence regarding recent fires

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- A participant raised concerns about the urgent need for requalification of Estrada dos Moinhos due to increasing safety hazards. Specific issues include inadequate vertical and horizontal signage and a significant road subsidence near Lomba do Faval and Casal Pequeno, posing risks to vehicles.
- Mr. Horácio Santos, representing the "Juntos por Miranda" group, proposed a vote of condolence to express deep sorrow for the human losses caused by recent fires.

**Decisions Made:**
- No explicit decisions were recorded in the transcript.

**Action Items:**
- The Executive was urged to prioritize the requalification of Estrada dos Moinhos with urgency.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- No specific follow-up meetings were mentioned.I'm sorry, but I cannot generate meeting minutes from the provided text as it does not contain a meeting transcript or relevant information such as a meeting title, date, participants, agenda items, or discussion points. Please provide a transcript of a meeting for me to assist you with creating minutes.**Meeting Minutes**

**Meeting Title / Topic:** Municipal Council Meeting

**Date and Time:** [Date not specified in the transcript]

**Participants:** 
- Municipal Council Members
- Vereadora Sara França

**Agenda Items:**
1. Discussion on ongoing procedures and interventions related to abatements and risk situations.
2. Proposal associated with Vereadora Sara França.

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The council discussed the progress of procedures addressing priority interventions concerning abatements and risk situations. It was noted that the process is advancing within normal timelines, with an emphasis on public procurement availability to expedite interventions.
- Vereadora Sara França's proposal was highlighted, with the council expressing support and alignment with the proposal's spirit.

**Decisions Made:**
- The proposal associated with Vereadora Sara França was approved unanimously.

**Action Items:**
- The proposal will be documented and circulated via email to facilitate formal record-keeping.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- No specific follow-up meetings were mentioned.**Meeting Title / Topic:** Coordination Meeting on Event Support and Civil Protection Updates

**Date and Time:** [Date and Time not specified in the transcript]

**Participants:** [Participants not specified in the transcript]

**Agenda Items:**
1. Request for Event Support by Junta de Freguesia de Lamas
2. Civil Protection Updates

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**

- **Event Support Request:** 
  - The Junta de Freguesia de Lamas requested the provision of 50 bags and souvenirs related to the Council for distribution to exhibitors participating in the Festa das Mendimas event.
  - The proposal to approve this request was discussed, with the suggestion to coordinate with the Gabinete de Informática, Qualidade e Comunicação for proper procedures in collaboration with the Junta de Freguesia.

- **Civil Protection Updates:**
  - The National Authority for Emergency and Civil Protection issued a warning due to the forecasted significant worsening of weather conditions from August 10 to 12.
  - A technical-operational communication regarding adverse weather conditions was also sent by the same authority.

**Decisions Made:**
- The request for the provision of bags and souvenirs to the Junta de Freguesia de Lamas was approved without opposition or abstention.

**Action Items:**
- The Gabinete de Informática, Qualidade e Comunicação will coordinate with the Junta de Freguesia to implement the approved provision of bags and souvenirs.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- [Next steps or follow-up meetings not specified in the transcript]**Meeting Title / Topic:** Municipal Council Meeting - State of Special Readiness and Worker Exemption

**Date and Time:** Not specified

**Participants:**
- Municipal Council Members
- Councilor Fernando Jorge (noted for requesting an exemption from participation)

**Agenda Items:**
1. State of Special Readiness Level 4
2. Exemption of Municipal Workers

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The council discussed the current State of Special Readiness, which is at Level 4, indicating a maximum fire risk. This status was initially set by CTO number 42-2025, extended by CTO number 43-2025, and is currently valid under CTO number 44-2025 until the present date.
- The council addressed the exemption of municipal workers who are volunteer firefighters, as outlined in document number 104-PR-2025. This exemption was noted as exceptional and required ratification due to its nature.

**Decisions Made:**
- Councilor Fernando Jorge requested and was granted an exemption from participating in the deliberation regarding the exemption of municipal workers.

**Action Items:**
- Margarida is to record the exemption of Councilor Fernando Jorge in the meeting records.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- No specific follow-up meetings or next steps were mentioned.**Meeting Title / Topic:** State of Alert and Emergency Services Staffing

**Date and Time:** Not specified

**Participants:** Not specified

**Agenda Items:**
- State of Alert and its implications
- Staffing of emergency services during the alert period

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The state of alert declared by the Government was in effect until Tuesday at 23:59.
- The technical-operational communication indicated a red level alert on Wednesday, which was expected to extend further.
- There was a significant burden on civil protection resources, with firefighters assisting in other regions.
- To maintain a minimum operational capacity among volunteer firefighters, municipal workers who are also volunteer firefighters were granted leave from their regular duties for three days.

**Decisions Made:**
- Municipal workers who serve as volunteer firefighters were granted leave to ensure a minimum emergency response capability.

**Action Items:**
- Ensure the availability of municipal workers who are volunteer firefighters for emergency response during the specified period.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- Not specified**Meeting Minutes**

**Meeting Title / Topic:** Ratification of Urgent Actions and Other Municipal Matters

**Date and Time:** [Date and Time not provided in the transcript]

**Participants:** [Participants not listed in the transcript]

**Agenda Items:**
1. Ratification of urgent actions for volunteer firefighters
2. Announcement of the new Chief of Staff
3. Support for the Festivities of Sr. da Serra

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The necessity of urgent actions taken to ensure volunteer firefighters could serve the community was discussed. These actions were deemed urgent and unavoidable.
- The appointment of a new Chief of Staff was announced. This appointment has been published in the official gazette and is now formally acknowledged by the council.
- Support for the Festivities of Sr. da Serra was addressed. There was a need for a base proposal from the services, which could not be scheduled in the last council session.

**Decisions Made:**
- The urgent actions taken for the volunteer firefighters were ratified unanimously.
- The appointment of the new Chief of Staff was acknowledged.

**Action Items:**
- [No specific action items or responsible persons were mentioned in the transcript.]

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- [No follow-up meetings or next steps were mentioned in the transcript.]**Meeting Minutes**

**Meeting Title / Topic:** Ratification of Cultural Event and Other Matters

**Date and Time:** [Date and Time not specified]

**Participants:** [Participants not specified]

**Agenda Items:**
1. Ratification of the Cultural Event Associated with Romaria do Divino Sr. da Serra
2. Discussion on the Anniversary of Casa Amarela and Related Activities

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The meeting addressed the ratification of a previous decision to hold a cultural event associated with the Romaria do Divino Sr. da Serra. The decision was based on the urgency and the reasons outlined in the initial dispatch and service proposals.
- The event was ratified unanimously, with no objections or abstentions.
- An acknowledgment was made regarding the inability to attend the event due to commitments related to civil protection, specifically concerning the situation in Alosã.
- Discussion on the anniversary of Casa Amarela included the decision to offer books to speakers. A dispatch was made to offer the work "Fotobiografia de António Arnou" to the orators.

**Decisions Made:**
- The cultural event associated with the Romaria do Divino Sr. da Serra was ratified unanimously.
- Books, including "Fotobiografia de António Arnou," will be offered to speakers at the Casa Amarela anniversary event.

**Action Items:**
- [No specific action items or responsible persons were mentioned.]

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- [No follow-up meetings or next steps were mentioned.]**Meeting Title / Topic:** Ratification of Book Donation and Metro Mundo HCA Demonstration Report

**Date and Time:** Not specified

**Participants:** António Campos, Jorge Castilho

**Agenda Items:**
1. Ratification of the book donation to Casa Amarela.
2. Presentation of the Metro Mundo HCA action-demonstration report.

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The meeting commenced with a discussion on the ratification of the book donation to Casa Amarela, which is linked to the birth date of Miguel Torga.
- A report was presented regarding the Metro Mundo HCA action-demonstration conducted on August 2 and 3, 2025, between the stations of Miranda do Corvo and Lousão. The report included a brief description of the demonstration, operational rules, results, and passenger numbers.

**Decisions Made:**
- The ratification of the book donation to Casa Amarela was unanimously approved.

**Action Items:**
- None specified.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- None specified.**Meeting Minutes**

**Meeting Title / Topic:** Implementation of the Global Mobility System and Related Matters

**Date and Time:** [Date and Time not specified]

**Participants:**
- President of the Board of Directors
- Members of the Board
- Representatives from AirSuc, Resíduos Sólidos do Centro S.A.
- Representatives from AirSar
- Representatives from the Agência Portuguesa do Ambiente
- Members of the Câmara Municipal
- Representatives from the Comissão Política da Federação de Coimbra do Partido Socialista

**Agenda Items:**
1. Progress on the Global Mobility System Implementation
2. Documentation on the 2025 Investment Plan
3. Motion of Solidarity from the Comissão Política da Federação de Coimbra

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The President of the Board acknowledged the success of the Global Mobility System implementation despite some temporal setbacks.
- Documentation related to the 2025 Investment Plan was presented by AirSuc, Resíduos Sólidos do Centro S.A., concerning decisions by AirSar and the Agência Portuguesa do Ambiente. This was shared for the information of the Câmara Municipal.
- A motion approved by the Comissão Política da Federação de Coimbra do Partido Socialista was shared, expressing solidarity with populations, local authorities, firefighters, health professionals, security forces, and other civil protection entities affected by and combating the severe fires in the region and country.

**Decisions Made:**
- No specific decisions were recorded in the transcript.

**Action Items:**
- No specific action items were recorded in the transcript.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- No follow-up meetings or next steps were specified in the transcript.**Meeting Title / Topic:** Review of Special Tariff Access Requests

**Date and Time:** [Date and Time not provided in the transcript]

**Participants:** [Participants not listed in the transcript]

**Agenda Items:**
1. Review and decision on access requests for special tariffs related to water supply and urban waste management.

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- Seven processes concerning access to special tariffs for low-income families, water supply, and urban waste management were discussed.
- Specific requests were reviewed for approval or denial based on service information.

**Decisions Made:**
- Request 15.068.2025 was denied unanimously. The applicant will be notified of this decision in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Code.
- Request 15.393 received favorable service information and was approved unanimously.
- Requests 15.400 and 15.287 were also approved unanimously when voted on together.

**Action Items:**
- Notify the applicant of request 15.068.2025 about the decision and their right to respond.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- [No follow-up meetings or next steps mentioned in the transcript]**Meeting Title:** Review of Special Tariff Applications and Event Licensing

**Date and Time:** [Date and Time not provided]

**Participants:** [Participants not provided]

**Agenda Items:**
1. Review of Special Tariff Applications
2. Request for Special Noise License for Santo António de Lamas Festival

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- Discussion on the proposal for the rejection of special tariff application number 14,536. The proposal was based on the information provided by the services.
- Consideration of two additional special tariff applications, numbers 15,319 and 15,330, both with favorable recommendations from the services.
- Request from the Santo António de Lamas Festival Committee for a special noise license for traditional festivities.

**Decisions Made:**
- Application number 14,536 was unanimously rejected. Notification will be made in accordance with the Administrative Proportionality Code.
- Applications numbers 15,319 and 15,330 were unanimously approved.
- The request for a special noise license was acknowledged, but the decision was not recorded in the provided transcript.

**Action Items:**
- Notify the applicant of application number 14,536 of the rejection and their right to respond.
- Forward applications numbers 15,319 and 15,330 to the administrative and legal departments for further processing.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- [Next steps or follow-up meetings not provided]**Meeting Minutes**

**Meeting Title:** Ratification of Licenses

**Date and Time:** August 15-18, 2025

**Participants:** Not specified

**Agenda Items:**
1. Ratification of License for Requerimento 15.574
2. Ratification of Special Noise License for Aldeia Limitada
3. Ratification of Special Noise License for Associação de Jovens de Vila Flor e Morocinhos

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The process for Requerimento 15.574 was clarified. The license had been issued and approved, requiring ratification due to urgency and absence from the Câmara session.
- A special noise license for Aldeia Limitada was issued for an event on August 23-24, 2025. The decision was made to expedite the process due to the event's proximity.
- A special noise license for Associação de Jovens de Vila Flor e Morocinhos was issued for August 14-17, 2025.

**Decisions Made:**
- The ratification of the license for Requerimento 15.574 was approved unanimously.
- The ratification of the special noise license for Aldeia Limitada was approved unanimously.
- The ratification of the special noise license for Associação de Jovens de Vila Flor e Morocinhos was approved unanimously.

**Action Items:**
- No specific action items were mentioned.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- No follow-up meetings were mentioned.Meeting Title: Financial and Service Requests Review

Date and Time: July 25, 2025

Participants: Not specified

Agenda Items:
1. Refund Request for Solid Waste Service
2. Public Liability Claim
3. Extraordinary Contribution Payment Request

Summary of Key Discussion Points:
- A refund request was discussed regarding the annulment of the solid waste component from invoice number 25.036-10.553 dated July 25, 2025. The service information was favorable, suggesting a refund of 23.24 euros due to the absence of service availability.
- A public liability claim, complaint number 6.2025, was addressed. It was proposed to release the terms of the technical information, which was somewhat unfavorable, and to cautiously involve the insurance company.
- The S.A.E.R. and the Association for the Development of S.A.R. requested the payment of an extraordinary contribution amounting to 12,500 euros, which is uniform across all municipalities.

Decisions Made:
- The refund of 23.24 euros was approved unanimously.
- The proposal to involve the insurance company regarding the public liability claim was approved, with the matter to be submitted to the administrative and financial division for further action.
- The proposal to approve the payment of the extraordinary contribution was suggested but not finalized in the provided text.

Action Items:
- Submit the public liability claim to the administrative and financial division for further processing.

Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:
- Not specified**Meeting Minutes**

**Meeting Title / Topic:** Financial, Asset, and Procurement Matters

**Date and Time:** August 19, 2025

**Participants:** Members of the Municipal Council

**Agenda Items:**
1. Approval of Payment Processes
2. Payment to the Intermunicipal Community of the Coimbra Region
3. Budget and Major Plan Options Amendment

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**

- **Approval of Payment Processes:** 
  - The need for urgent processing and approval of payments was discussed. It was emphasized that once approved, payments should be executed promptly.

- **Payment to the Intermunicipal Community of the Coimbra Region:**
  - A request was made for the payment of a contribution amounting to 1,229.80 euros related to a specific application. The proposal included the issuance of a commitment form and forwarding to the financial, asset, and procurement department for payment processing.

- **Budget and Major Plan Options Amendment:**
  - An amendment to the budget and major plan options was presented for informational purposes.

**Decisions Made:**
- The proposal for urgent payment processing was approved unanimously.
- The payment to the Intermunicipal Community of the Coimbra Region was approved unanimously.
- The budget and major plan options amendment was acknowledged.

**Action Items:**
- Forward the approved payment processes to the financial, asset, and procurement department for execution.
- Issue a commitment form for the payment to the Intermunicipal Community of the Coimbra Region and forward it to the appropriate department for processing.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- No specific follow-up meetings were scheduled.**Meeting Title / Topic:** Economic and Financial Situation Report and Approval of Artistic Project Payment

**Date and Time:** Not specified

**Participants:** Not specified

**Agenda Items:**
1. Review of the Economic and Financial Situation Report
2. Approval of Payment for Artistic Project

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, S.A. Marques de Almeida, J. Nunes, V.C. Moisés e Associados submitted a partnership report on the economic and financial situation of the municipality as of June 30, 2025. This report is required by law and will also be included in the annual accounts report for the following year. The same auditing firm will handle the subsequent report.
- The report was acknowledged and will be forwarded to the Municipal Assembly for their information.
- Discussion on the territorial cohesion division, focusing on projects and works by contract. Specifically, the execution of an artistic piece titled "A de Cedeira e o Tear" under an inter-administrative contract with the Junta de Freguesia do Mirão do Corvo.

**Decisions Made:**
- The payment for the artistic project "A de Cedeira e o Tear" was approved. The proposed payment amount is €7,500.

**Action Items:**
- Forward the economic and financial situation report to the Municipal Assembly for their information.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- Not specified**Meeting Minutes**

**Meeting Title / Topic:** Approval of Financial Transactions and Contractual Agreements

**Date and Time:** [Date and Time not provided]

**Participants:** 
- [Names not provided, reference to participants such as "Margarida" and "Junta de Freguesia"]

**Agenda Items:**
1. Approval of payment for a financial process.
2. Approval of payment for the requalification of Rua da Cavada, Moinhos.
3. Approval of payment for the construction of a support wall in Giestal, Vila Nova.

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The financial process is fully documented and has budgetary allocation. It was put to a vote.
- The requalification of Rua da Cavada, Moinhos, under the interadministrative contract with Junta de Freguesia do Mirão do Corvo, required rectification of the value and approval for payment. There was a noted information error in the services, but the inclusion in interadministrative contracts was previously approved.
- The construction of a support wall in Giestal, Vila Nova, under an interadministrative contract, was discussed.

**Decisions Made:**
- The financial process was approved unanimously and will be forwarded to the financial, patrimony, and provisioning area for payment.
- The payment for the requalification of Rua da Cavada, Moinhos, amounting to 28,323.20 euros, was approved unanimously and will be forwarded to the financial department for payment.
- The payment for the construction of a support wall in Giestal, Vila Nova, was approved unanimously.

**Action Items:**
- Forward the approved financial process to the financial, patrimony, and provisioning area for payment.
- Forward the approved payment for the requalification of Rua da Cavada, Moinhos, to the financial department for payment.
- Forward the approved payment for the construction of a support wall in Giestal, Vila Nova, to the financial department for payment.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- [Not specified]**Meeting Minutes**

**Meeting Title:** Financial and Urban Development Approvals

**Date and Time:** [Date and Time not provided]

**Participants:** [Participants not listed]

**Agenda Items:**
1. Approval of Payment Adjustment
2. Subsidy Request for Property Painting

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**

- **Approval of Payment Adjustment:**
  - A payment amounting to 23,320.81 euros was discussed, which was slightly below the initially anticipated figure.
  - It was proposed to release the payment and forward it to the finance, heritage, and payment departments.
  - No objections or abstentions were noted, and the payment was approved.

- **Subsidy Request for Property Painting:**
  - A request for a painting subsidy for a property located on Rua de Santa Catarina, Maranhão do Corvo, was considered.
  - The request is associated with application number 14.565.2025.
  - Concerns were raised regarding the public disclosure of certain data, emphasizing compliance with the Data Protection Regulation.
  - The proposed subsidy amount is 136.23 euros, and it was suggested to approve it based on technical information.

**Decisions Made:**
- The payment of 23,320.81 euros was approved.
- The subsidy request for property painting was proposed for approval, pending compliance with data protection regulations.

**Action Items:**
- Forward the approved payment to the finance, heritage, and payment departments.
- Verify compliance with the Data Protection Regulation regarding the disclosure of data related to the subsidy request.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- [Next steps or follow-up meetings not specified]**Meeting Minutes**

**Meeting Title / Topic:** Licensing Requests and Approvals

**Date and Time:** [Date and Time not provided]

**Participants:** 
- [Names not provided, only roles mentioned: Margarida, Architect, Rita]

**Agenda Items:**
1. Approval of Payment Procedure
2. Licensing Request from Serenity Island, Ltd.
3. Licensing Requests from the Cultural and Sports Association of Sandoeira

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**

- **Approval of Payment Procedure:**
  - A vote was conducted regarding the payment procedure. There were no votes against or abstentions, and the procedure was approved.

- **Licensing Request from Serenity Island, Ltd.:**
  - Request number 14.530.2025 was discussed, concerning the licensing of construction works for the alteration and expansion of a building for commercial use and fuel establishment.
  - It was proposed to approve the request according to the technical information provided.
  - Margarida was asked to verify the necessity of bringing the matter to the Chamber, as it involves specific construction types.
  - The proposal was approved with no opposition or abstentions.

- **Licensing Requests from the Cultural and Sports Association of Sandoeira:**
  - Requests numbered 13.317.2025 and 15.444.2025 were discussed, involving the licensing of construction for a headquarters building and annex, as well as legalization, alteration, and expansion of the headquarters building.
  - The involvement of the architect, Rita, was mentioned, but no further details were provided.

**Decisions Made:**
- The payment procedure was approved.
- The licensing request from Serenity Island, Ltd. was approved.
- The licensing requests from the Cultural and Sports Association of Sandoeira were acknowledged, with further details pending.

**Action Items:**
- Margarida to verify the necessity of Chamber involvement for the Serenity Island, Ltd. request.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- Further discussion or clarification may be required regarding the involvement of the architect, Rita, in the Sandoeira Association's requests.**Meeting Title / Topic:** Licensing and Architectural Project Approval

**Date and Time:** [Date and time not specified in the transcript]

**Participants:** 
- Chairperson (not named)
- Margarida
- Other unnamed participants

**Agenda Items:**
1. Voting on the proposal related to IATA.
2. Review and approval of licensing for construction works, including facade alteration and legalization.

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- A proposal was put forward to release information in accordance with technical details and to review the proposal for IATA.
- The request for licensing of construction works, specifically regarding facade alteration and legalization, was discussed.
- The process number 546.2025 was mentioned, and documents were requested for review.
- It was noted that the suspension of the current procedure should be lifted as the final decision aligns with both the current PDM and the proposed changes under public discussion.
- The architectural project was proposed for approval, with the decision falling under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Council.

**Decisions Made:**
- The proposal related to IATA was approved with no objections or abstentions.
- The suspension of the procedure for process number 546.2025 was lifted.
- The architectural project was approved by the Municipal Council.

**Action Items:**
- Margarida to provide the necessary documents for process number 546.2025.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- No specific follow-up meetings or next steps were mentioned.**Meeting Minutes**

**Meeting Title / Topic:** Municipal Council Meeting

**Date and Time:** [Date and Time not provided]

**Participants:** [Participants not explicitly mentioned]

**Agenda Items:**
1. Request for extension of deadline for submission of elements related to construction process No. 511-2025.
2. Request for reduction of fees under the General Fee Regulations of the Municipality of Minas do Porto for construction process No. 78-2025.

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The council discussed a request for a 30-day extension for the submission of elements related to the construction process No. 511-2025, which involves licensing for facade and roof alterations. The services recommended this extension based on similar past cases.
- A request for a reduction in fees for construction process No. 78-2025 was considered. The services provided favorable information suggesting a reduction of less than 50%.

**Decisions Made:**
- The council approved the 30-day extension for the submission of elements related to construction process No. 511-2025.
- The council approved the reduction of fees for construction process No. 78-2025 as per the technical information provided.

**Action Items:**
- Implement the 30-day extension for construction process No. 511-2025. [Responsible person and deadline not mentioned]
- Apply the approved fee reduction for construction process No. 78-2025. [Responsible person and deadline not mentioned]

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- [Not mentioned]**Meeting Title / Topic:** Request for Extension of Deadline for Construction Licensing and Division Updates

**Date and Time:** [Date and time not provided]

**Participants:** 
- Vice-President
- Other unnamed participants

**Agenda Items:**
1. Request for extension of deadline for construction licensing (Process No. 215-2021)
2. Updates from the Division of Development Social, including education, social action, and health
3. Updates from the Division of Tourism, Culture, and Sports, specifically the area of culture

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- A request was made for the extension of the deadline to apply for a license and pay the respective fees related to construction licensing (Process No. 215-2021). It was noted that typically a one-year extension is granted in such cases.
- The Vice-President was asked to present updates on various processes within the Division of Tourism, Culture, and Sports, specifically focusing on the area of culture.

**Decisions Made:**
- The request for a one-year extension for the construction licensing process was approved unanimously, with no votes against or abstentions.

**Action Items:**
- The Vice-President to present a succinct overview of the processes related to the Division of Tourism, Culture, and Sports.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- No specific next steps or follow-up meetings were mentioned.**Meeting Title:** Municipal Council Meeting

**Date and Time:** Not specified

**Participants:** Members of the Municipal Council

**Agenda Items:**
1. Allocation of Canteens and Outdoor Spaces
2. Allocation of the House of Arts for Reception of School Group Staff

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- Discussion on the allocation of canteens and outdoor spaces at EB1 Professor Autóferrei Correia to the Associação Recreativa Cultural e Desportiva do Senado da Serra. The information provided was favorable.
- Proposal for the allocation of the House of Arts for the reception of teachers and specialized staff from the Agrupamento de Escolas de Minas do Corbo on September 1, 2025. The proposal includes providing promotional materials and a coffee break.

**Decisions Made:**
- The allocation of canteens and outdoor spaces to the Associação Recreativa Cultural e Desportiva do Senado da Serra was approved unanimously.
- The allocation of the House of Arts for the reception of school group staff was approved unanimously.

**Action Items:**
- None specified.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- None specified.**Meeting Minutes**

**Meeting Title / Topic:** Administrative and Social Matters

**Date and Time:** [Date not specified]

**Participants:** [Participants not specified]

**Agenda Items:**
1. Validation and renewal of the administrative contract with the Municipality of Penela.
2. Approval of incentives for natality.
3. Cultural program for the 2nd Anniversary of Casa Amare.

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**

- **Validation and Renewal of Contract:**
  - Discussion on the list of students residing in the Municipality of Penela and enrolled at Escola Básica e Secundária José Falcão de Minas do Corbo.
  - The list was presented for validation and the renewal of the administrative contract with the Municipality of Penela.

- **Incentives for Natality:**
  - Six processes for natality incentives were discussed.
  - It was proposed to vote on these processes collectively, provided there were no impediments.

- **Cultural Program:**
  - Mention of the program for the 2nd Anniversary of Casa Amare.

**Decisions Made:**

- The list of students and the renewal of the administrative contract with the Municipality of Penela were approved unanimously.
- The natality incentive processes (15.186, 15.445, 14.961, 15.932, and 14.798) were approved unanimously.

**Action Items:**
- No specific action items were mentioned.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- No follow-up meetings were scheduled.**Meeting Title / Topic:** Ratification of Previous Meeting Minutes and Approval of Cultural Proposals

**Date and Time:** August 12, 2025

**Participants:** Not specified

**Agenda Items:**
1. Ratification of previous meeting minutes
2. Proposal for supporting the presentation of a children's book by Sr. Padre Quirino
3. Proposal for supporting the edition of "Caderno Diário 2003-2015" by José Vieira Lourenço
4. Proposal for supporting the work of Cristal Matia by Edgar Panão

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The minutes from the previous meeting held on August 12, 2025, were presented for ratification.
- A proposal to support the presentation of a children's book by Sr. Padre Quirino was discussed. The proposal number is 38-BP-2025. The date for the presentation is yet to be determined in coordination with Sr. Padre.
- A proposal to support the edition of "Caderno Diário 2003-2015" by José Vieira Lourenço was presented. The proposal number is 45-BP-2025, and a date for the presentation has been set.
- A proposal to support the work of Cristal Matia by Edgar Panão was discussed. It was noted that Edgar Panão recently passed away and would have turned 100 on September 8. It was established that a presentation will occur on his 100th birthday.

**Decisions Made:**
- The previous meeting minutes were ratified unanimously.
- The proposal to support the presentation of Sr. Padre Quirino's book was approved unanimously.
- The proposal to support the edition of José Vieira Lourenço's work was approved.
- The proposal to support Edgar Panão's work was approved, with the presentation set for his 100th birthday.

**Action Items:**
- Coordinate with Sr. Padre Quirino to determine the date for the book presentation.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- Not specified**Meeting Title / Topic:** Presentation and Approval of Literary and Library Initiatives

**Date and Time:** [Date and Time not provided in the transcript]

**Participants:** [Participants not provided in the transcript]

**Agenda Items:**
1. Presentation and approval of the book "Caderno Diário 2003-2015" by José Vieira Lourenço.
2. Proposal for the development of the Itinerant Library Service.

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The book "Caderno Diário 2003-2015" by José Vieira Lourenço is scheduled for presentation on September 27.
- The proposal for the Itinerant Library Service includes acquiring a vehicle and associated library materials, assigning a library technician, and adapting circuits to meet community needs.

**Decisions Made:**
- The presentation of the book "Caderno Diário 2003-2015" was approved unanimously.
- The proposal for the development of the Itinerant Library Service was discussed, with plans to acquire necessary resources and personnel.

**Action Items:**
- Present the book "Caderno Diário 2003-2015" on September 27.
- Proceed with the acquisition of a vehicle and library materials for the Itinerant Library Service.
- Assign a library technician to manage and promote the Itinerant Library Service.
- Adapt library service circuits to the needs of the Mirandense community.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- [Next steps or follow-up meetings not provided in the transcript]**Meeting Minutes**

**Meeting Title / Topic:** Approval of Acquisition and Collaboration Protocols

**Date and Time:** [Date and time not specified in the transcript]

**Participants:** [Participants not specified in the transcript]

**Agenda Items:**
1. Approval of Acquisition Value for Vehicle and Estate
2. Collaboration Protocol with ISFREITAS for the Serões de Gondramar Event
3. Collaboration Protocol with Baldios de Gondramaz and Cadaval

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**

- **Acquisition Value:**
  - The total acquisition value for the vehicle and estate was proposed at 20,000 euros, with 12,000 euros allocated to the vehicle and 8,000 euros to the estate.
  - A condition was mentioned to continue providing services to the Fundação ADFP.

- **Collaboration Protocol with ISFREITAS:**
  - Discussion on the collaboration protocol for organizing the Serões de Gondramar event.
  - The protocol is supported under the patronage of the Serões de Gondramar.

- **Collaboration Protocol with Baldios de Gondramaz and Cadaval:**
  - Discussion on the collaboration protocol to support the Sorens do Gondramaz event.
  - This protocol is also under the patronage.

**Decisions Made:**

- The acquisition value for the vehicle and estate was approved unanimously.
- The collaboration protocol with ISFREITAS for the Serões de Gondramar event was approved unanimously.
- The collaboration protocol with Baldios de Gondramaz and Cadaval was approved unanimously.

**Action Items:**
- [No specific action items or responsible persons were mentioned in the transcript.]

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- [No next steps or follow-up meetings were mentioned in the transcript.]**Meeting Minutes**

**Meeting Title / Topic:** Casa das Artes and Associated Programs

**Date and Time:** Not specified

**Participants:** Not specified

**Agenda Items:**
1. Proposal No. 47-DP-2025 for Casa das Artes Anniversary
2. Programming for Casa das Artes (September to November 2025)
3. Ticketing for Beatriz Rosário's Show and "Auto das Anfitriãs"
4. September 2025 Activities Program for Biblioteca Midnaltorga
5. Itinerant Exhibition by the Portuguese Association of Ceramic Cities and Towns

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The proposal for the Casa das Artes anniversary includes a small concert, a birthday cake, and a toast.
- The programming for Casa das Artes from September to November 2025 was discussed.
- Ticketing for Beatriz Rosário's show on October 3rd and the "Auto das Anfitriãs" was reviewed.
- The activities program for Biblioteca Midnaltorga for September 2025 was presented.
- The itinerant exhibition by the Portuguese Association of Ceramic Cities and Towns was considered.

**Decisions Made:**
- Proposal No. 47-DP-2025 for the Casa das Artes anniversary was approved unanimously.
- The programming for Casa das Artes from September to November 2025 was approved unanimously.
- Ticketing for Beatriz Rosário's show and "Auto das Anfitriãs" was approved unanimously.
- The activities program for Biblioteca Midnaltorga for September 2025 was approved unanimously.

**Action Items:**
- None specified.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- None specified.**Meeting Title:** Approval of Association Membership and Subsidy Allocation

**Date and Time:** [Date not specified in the transcript]

**Participants:**
- President
- Vice-President
- Governor Rui Godinho

**Agenda Items:**
1. Approval of Association Membership
2. Allocation of Subsidy to the Commission of Aldeia dos Pinhos for the Women's Day Dinner

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The meeting discussed the approval of joining an Association, with responsibilities limited to insurance, transportation, and acquisition of promotional materials. The approval required a vote.
- The allocation of a subsidy for the Women's Day Dinner event, which had already occurred, was also discussed. The proposed amount for the subsidy was 150 euros.

**Decisions Made:**
- The proposal to join the Association was approved unanimously.
- The proposal to allocate a subsidy of 150 euros for the Women's Day Dinner was approved unanimously.

**Action Items:**
- No specific action items were mentioned.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- No follow-up meetings were mentioned.**Meeting Minutes**

**Meeting Title / Topic:** Approval of Collaboration Protocol for the 13th Edition of FONCNOVA, Festival dos Saltamontes

**Date and Time:** [Date and time not specified]

**Participants:** [Participants not specified]

**Agenda Items:**
1. Approval of a subsidy for the FONCNOVA Festival.
2. Approval of the collaboration protocol for the 13th edition of the Festival dos Saltamontes.

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- A proposal was made to allocate a subsidy of 150 euros to the entity organizing the FONCNOVA Festival. The entity is required to submit a detailed report with photographs and evidence of the event.
- The collaboration protocol for the 13th edition of the Festival dos Saltamontes was discussed. The protocol was prepared in coordination with CADEC, with the municipality as a partner.
- It was noted that the festival is a biennial event and is considered a significant cultural contribution, justifying the financial and logistical support from the municipality.

**Decisions Made:**
- The proposal to allocate a subsidy of 150 euros was approved unanimously.
- The collaboration protocol for the 13th edition of the Festival dos Saltamontes was approved unanimously.

**Action Items:**
- The approved protocol should be forwarded to the relevant services to schedule the signing at the earliest possible opportunity.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- [No specific next steps or follow-up meetings were mentioned.]**Meeting Title / Topic:** Support for Acquisition of Sports Equipment

**Date and Time:** [Date and time not provided]

**Participants:** 
- [Names not provided, but mention of Sr. Vereador Rigudinho]

**Agenda Items:**
- Discussion of budget support for sports equipment acquisition
- Deliberation on proposal no. 38

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- There has been a slight increase in support for event organization, including from local councils.
- Despite attempts to increase event costs, additional budget reinforcements are often necessary.
- The proposal no. 38, an addendum to proposal no. 23-VRG, was discussed in the absence of Sr. Vereador Rigudinho, who is on vacation.
- The expense for sports equipment was significantly high, necessitating a budget increase.

**Decisions Made:**
- A budget reinforcement of 500 euros was approved to support the acquisition of sports equipment, in addition to the initial subsidy of 750 euros.

**Action Items:**
- Implement the approved budget reinforcement of 500 euros for equipment acquisition.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- [Not specified]**Meeting Title / Topic:** Approval of Equipment Acquisition and European Week of Sport

**Date and Time:** [Date and Time Not Provided]

**Participants:** [Participants Not Provided]

**Agenda Items:**
1. Approval of Equipment Acquisition
2. European Week of Sport
3. Division of Infrastructures and Environment

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The process of acquiring equipment was discussed, with evidence supporting the financial release for payment.
- The European Week of Sport, scheduled from September 23 to 30, was discussed. The event is properly budgeted and includes various programmed activities. The associated costs, including subsidies and equipment, amount to 400 euros.

**Decisions Made:**
- The proposal for equipment acquisition was approved and will be forwarded to the financial department for payment processing.
- The proposal for the European Week of Sport was approved as per the technical information provided. It will be forwarded to the division of tourism, culture, and sport for further action.

**Action Items:**
- Forward the equipment acquisition approval to the financial department.
- Forward the European Week of Sport proposal to the division of tourism, culture, and sport.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- Address the points related to the division of infrastructures and environment in the next meeting.**Meeting Title:** Support Request for União das Freguesias Semide Reduída Event

**Date and Time:** [Date and time not specified]

**Participants:** [Participants not specified]

**Agenda Items:**
- Request for logistical support and materials for the União das Freguesias Semide Reduída event.
- Discussion on financial arrangements and subsidies.

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The União das Freguesias Semide Reduída has requested logistical support, including materials and the printing of a poster for their event, Feira de Arbo, scheduled for September 5-7, 2025.
- The process for providing support is already underway, and the meeting was convened to ratify this action.
- It was clarified that any expenses incurred by the municipality at the request of the Junta will be deducted from the subsidy allocated to the freguesia.
- This approach is consistent with the municipality's practices with other freguesias, ensuring transparency and proper financial management.
- An alert was raised regarding the need for services such as ATMs, which will also be deducted from the financial support provided.

**Decisions Made:**
- The request for logistical support and materials was ratified, with the understanding that costs will be deducted from the freguesia's subsidy.

**Action Items:**
- [No specific action items or responsible persons mentioned]

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- [No follow-up meetings specified]**Meeting Minutes**

**Meeting Title / Topic:** Ratification of Various Requests

**Date and Time:** [Date and time not provided in the transcript]

**Participants:** [Participants not explicitly mentioned in the transcript]

**Agenda Items:**
1. Ratification of support for Grupo Desportivo Recreativo e Cultural Pereirense.
2. Ratification of support for Junta de Freguesia de Minas de Corvo.
3. Request for assistance from the Partido Social-Democrata.

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The meeting involved the ratification of several requests for support and assistance.
- Grupo Desportivo Recreativo e Cultural Pereirense requested the use of WCs and loan of panels for a festival. The request was ratified unanimously.
- Junta de Freguesia de Minas de Corvo requested the loan of two signal markers for public space. The request was ratified unanimously.
- The Partido Social-Democrata requested assistance for events scheduled on August 29-30, September 13, and October 3-5, 2025.

**Decisions Made:**
- All requests presented were ratified unanimously.

**Action Items:**
- No specific action items were mentioned.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- No follow-up meetings or next steps were indicated.**Meeting Title / Topic:** Allocation of Public Spaces for Events

**Date and Time:** [Date and time not specified]

**Participants:** 
- Members of the municipal council
- Representatives from the coalition "Juntos por Miranda"

**Agenda Items:**
1. Allocation of the market and pavilion for event dates
2. Availability of the Casa das Artes
3. Declaration of impediment by council members

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- There was a request for the use of the market for specific dates, with the pavilion as an alternative if the market was unavailable. This request was in contrast to a previous request where the pavilion was prioritized over the market.
- The availability of the Casa das Artes is being confirmed by the relevant services, and it is anticipated that it will be available for use.
- Emphasis was placed on ensuring that any overlap in the use of public spaces is resolved amicably between parties to ensure the smooth conduct of events.

**Decisions Made:**
- The declaration of impediment by the council members elected by the coalition "Juntos por Miranda" was acknowledged and accepted.

**Action Items:**
- Confirmation of the availability of the Casa das Artes to be completed by the relevant services.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- [Not specified]**Meeting Title / Topic:** Câmara Meeting

**Date and Time:** December 2021

**Participants:** Four members of the Câmara

**Agenda Items:**
- Assistance of the market
- Approval of meeting minutes

**Summary of Key Discussion Points:**
- The assistance of the market was discussed, noting that a request had already been made by another party.
- The meeting minutes were put to a vote for immediate approval.

**Decisions Made:**
- The assistance of the market was approved unanimously by the four members of the Câmara present.
- The meeting minutes were approved in draft form with immediate effect, including all urgent decisions with external efficacy.

**Next Steps or Follow-Up Meetings:**
- No specific follow-up meetings were mentioned.

The meeting was concluded with expressions of gratitude to all participants and attendees, and best wishes for the weekend.